= About

This is the Address Book.  Address Book is a Web 2.0 application for managing
your personal address book.  It manages phone numbers, birthdays, addresses, 
and even generates a PDF of mailing labels for printing.

= Setup
* Install rails (version 2.2 or higher)
* Install the pdf-labels gem (version 2.0 or higher)
* Copy config/database.yml.template to config/database.yml and configure your
database connections
* Copy config/app_config.rb.template to config/app_config.rb and setup
your preferences
* Run "rake db:migrate" to setup your database


= Description 

Addressbook is broken out into 3 main sections:

== Contacts
Contacts is used to manage your, you guessed it, contacts.  All personal 
information about each contact is stored individually.  Contacts do not store
address information directly.  Instead, since multiple contacts can have the
same address, address information is stored seperately, and you can "link"
a contact to an address.

Contacts can also be searched for by last name in the Search section.  Simply 
provide the full or partial last name and click search.  You can then select
the contact from the list of search results that appear below the search box.

== Addresses
Addresses is used to manage the addresses of your contacts.  Each address has
an address type (Individual, Family, Married Couple, Unmarried Couple, etc).
The address type is used to determine the "addressee" of the address.  For
example, if Joe Smith and Jane Smith are linked to an address, the addressee
would be the following for the specific address types:

"Individual" - "Joe Smith"
"Family" - "Mr. & Mrs. Joe & Jane Smith & Family"
"Married Couple" - "Mr. & Mrs. Joe & Jane Smith"
"Unmarried Couple" - "Mr. Joe Smith & Ms. Jane Smith"

The home phone is also stored along with the address, since home phones are
specific to a home.  
 
You can specify the 2 main contacts for an address, in the "Contact 1" and 
"Contact 2" fields.  The drop down box will only let you select a contact that
is currently linked to the address.  These contacts are used in constructing
the addressee (see above).
 
== Groups
Groups provide a way to organize your contacts.  Each group has a name, and 
a list of members.  Members can be added via the "Maintain Group Members"
link.  The maintain group members screen displays all of the addressees,
broken out into those already included in the group and those not included.
You can either use the "Add All" and "Remove All" links to add/remove addressees
to the group, or you can drag and drop specific addressees into the specific
category.  When you are finished, click the "Done" link.
 
Once you have members in your group, you can create a printable PDF file of
mailing labels for the members in your group.  The Rabels library is used 
for this.  Addressbook allows you to choose one of the pre-defined Rabels 
label specifications to use.  If yours is not there, you can add it to 
Rabels.  Simply select your label type, and click the Create Labels link.
When printing the labels, be sure your PDF viewer is set to respect the 
margins in the document, and not to "center the document in the page" or 
perform any other types of margin alterations.

 
= LICENSE
MIT License.  See LICENCE for details.


= AUTHOR
Addressbook was written by John Wood.  John can be reached at 
john_p_wood@yahoo.com.

